>> Woodruff: UNREST CONTINUES TO
GRIP FERGUSON, MISSOURI.
CALLS FOR CALM DURING THE DAY
GIVE WAY TO MORE VIOLENT
PROTESTS AT NIGHT, AS THE
NATIONAL GUARD STRUGGLES TO HELP
RESTORE ORDER.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF,
GWEN IS AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD THIS TUESDAY, THE
HEAD OF DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS
SAYS THE THREAT OF EBOLA HAS
ALSO THREATENED ACCESS TO BASIC
HEALTH CARE FOR MANY IN WEST
AFRICA.
>> RIGHT NOW MOST OF THE HEALTH
CARE FACILITY ARE BEING IN
MOROVIA.
THE EMERGENCY WITHIN THE
EMERGENCY.
>> Woodruff: YEARS AFTER A
DEVASTATING EARTHQUAKE AND
TSUNAMI, ONE REGION OF INDONESIA
TURNED TO SHARIA LAW ALONGSIDE
DEMOCRACY.
PLUS, HOW CITIZEN SCIENTISTS ARE
DOCUMENTING THE OLINGUITO IN THE
WILD, ONE YEAR AFTER THE FURRY
CREATURE WAS DISCOVERED.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE STORIES
WE'RE COVERING ON TONIGHT'S PBS
NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: STATE AND LOCAL
OFFICIALS IN FERGUSON, MISSOURI,
APPEALED TODAY FOR PEOPLE TO
STAY HOME AFTER DARK.
IT'S THE LATEST EFFORT TO END
THE NIGHTLY UNREST SINCE THE
POLICE SHOOTING OF A BLACK
TEENAGER, MICHAEL BROWN.
BUT ANOTHER POLICE KILLING, OF
ANOTHER BLACK SUSPECT, RAISED
FRESH FEARS OF WHAT'S TO COME
WHEN THE SUN GOES DOWN.
>> Woodruff: BY DAY, THE MAIN
STREETS IN FERGUSON WERE BUSY
WITH CARS, MANY BLOWING HORNS IN
SOLIDARITY WITH DEMONSTRATORS
WHO CARRIED SIGNS AND BANNERS.
OWNERS OF DAMAGED STORES OFFERED
MESSAGES OF HOPE, AND SOME
PROTESTERS EVEN HAD CONGENIAL
CONVERSATIONS WITH POLICE.
THEN, A DOZEN MILES AWAY, ON THE
NORTH SIDE OF ST. LOUIS, A NEW
INCIDENT.
POLICE SAID THEY SHOT AND KILLED
A MAN AFTER HE ROBBED A MARKET,
AND CONFRONTED THEM WITH A
KNIFE.
POLICE COLONEL SAM DOTSON.
>> HE WAS ACTING ERRATICALLY AND
HIS BEHAVIOR APPROACHING THE
OFFICERS THEY DREW THEIR
WEAPONS.
THEY GAVE VERBAL COMMANDS
APPROACHED A SECOND OFFICER WITH
THE WEAPON OUT IN A THREATENING
MANNER WITH THE KNIFE IN AN
OVERHAND POSTURE.
I CERTAINLY THINK THAT IS AN
AGGRESSIVE STANCE.
>> Woodruff: THE INCIDENT, ON
THE HEELS OF THE KILLING OF
MICHAEL BROWN, 10 DAYS AGO,
THREATENED TO INFLAME TENSIONS
ANEW IN FERGUSON.
ON MONDAY, PEACEFUL
DEMONSTRATIONS IN THE EARLY
EVENING AGAIN GAVE WAY TO LATE-
NIGHT CONFRONTATION AS SOME IN
THE CROWD TURNED VIOLENT,
THROWING FIREBOMBS AND BOTTLES.
>> BACK UP NOW!
GET AWAY FROM THE VEHICLE!
>> Woodruff: POLICE, INCLUDING
MANY IN GAS MASKS AND RIOT GEAR,
FIRED FLASH GRENADES AND TEAR
GAS, AND EVEN USED HIGH-PITCHED
SIRENS TO DISPERSE THE THRONG.
OFFICIALS REPORTED HEAVY GUNFIRE
BY SOME IN THE CROWD, WITH AT
LEAST TWO PEOPLE WOUNDED.
>> IS THIS WAR?
IS THIS WORLD WAR III ON THE
>> Woodruff: THE MAN IN CHARGE
OF SECURING FERGUSON, MISSOURI
STATE HIGHWAY PATROL CAPTAIN RON
JOHNSON, SAID SOME OF THE DOZENS
ARRESTED CAME FROM AS FAR AWAY
AS NEW YORK AND CALIFORNIA.
>> I AM NOT GOING TO LET THE
CRIMINALS, THAT HAVE COME OUT
HERE FROM ACROSS THIS COUNTRY OR
LIVE IN THIS COMMUNITY, DEFINE
THIS NEIGHBORHOOD AND DEFINE
WHAT WE'RE GOING TO DO MAKE IT
RIGHT.
>> Woodruff: LATER, U.S. SENATOR
CLAIRE MCCASKILL, ON M.S.N.B.C.,
INSISTED OFFICIALS HAVE TO FIND
A BETTER WAY TO DEAL WITH THE
TROUBLEMAKERS.
>> WE OVER-POLICED FOR A FEW
DAYS, AND THEN WE COMPLETELY
UNDER-POLICED.
I THINK WHAT THEY'RE DOING NOW
IS WHAT THEY FEEL THEY HAVE TO
DO TO KEEP IT SAFE UNDER THESE
DANGEROUS CIRCUMSTANCES WITH
THESE INSTIGATORS IN TOWN.
>> Woodruff: SO FAR, AUTHORITIES
HAVE STRUGGLED FOR A SOLUTION.
LOCAL POLICE WERE IN CHARGE AT
FIRST.
THEN, THE STATE HIGHWAY PATROL
TOOK OVER.
AND YESTERDAY, THE GOVERNOR
CALLED IN THE NATIONAL GUARD,
BUT KEPT THEIR ROLE VERY
LIMITED.
HE HAD ALSO IMPOSED A LATE-NIGHT
CURFEW, THEN RESCINDED IT AFTER
TWO DAYS.
BUT SO FAR, NOTHING HAS BROUGHT
A GUARANTEE OF CALM.
>> Woodruff: WE'LL RETURN TO THE
UNREST IN FERGUSON, HOW IT'S
AFFECTING CHILDREN, AND HOW IT'S
HIGHLIGHTING THE NATIONAL RACIAL
DIVIDE, AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY.
>> Woodruff: THE CEASE-FIRE
BETWEEN ISRAEL AND HAMAS
COLLAPSED TODAY IN A NEW BURST
OF FIGHTING.
GAZA MILITANTS BEGAN FIRING
ROCKETS HOURS BEFORE THE TRUCE
WAS TO EXPIRE.
AS THE DAY WENT ON, SIRENS
SOUNDED IN TEL AVIV AND
JERUSALEM, BUT THERE WERE NO
INJURIES.
ISRAEL RESPONDED WITH ESCALATING
AIR STRIKES THAT SENT LARGE
CLOUDS OF SMOKE RISING ABOVE THE
GAZA SKYLINE.
PALESTINIAN OFFICIALS REPORTED
TWO KILLED.
EACHE  THE OTHER.
>> TODAY'S ROCKET ATTACK ON THE
ISRAELI CITY OF BEERSHEBA IS A
GRAVE AND DIRECT VIOLATION OF
THE CEASE-FIRE THAT HAMAS
COMMITTED TO.
THIS IS THE ELEVENTH CEASE-FIRE
THAT HAMAS HAS EITHER REJECTED
OR VIOLATED AND IT'S CLEAR THAT
A CEASE-FIRE HAS TO BE A TWO-WAY
STREET.
>> THE CONTINUATION OF THE
ISRAELI AIR STRIKES ON THE GAZA
STRIP IS AN ATTEMPT TO ABORT THE
EFFORTS OF THE CAIRO
NEGOTIATIONS.
WE ARE WARNING THE ISRAELI
OCCUPATION FROM CONTINUING THIS
ESCALATION AND VIOLATING THE
CEASE-FIRE, WE PUT THE
RESPONSIBILITY ON ISRAEL FOR
THIS ESCALATION AND THE
IMPLICATIONS OF IT.
>> Woodruff: AFTER THE ROCKET
FIRE, THE ISRAELI DELEGATION
WALKED OUT OF EGYPTIAN-LED
NEGOTIATIONS.
THEY'RE AIMED AT REACHING A
LONG-TERM CEASE-FIRE.
GLOBAL POST IN APPEARED ON
"NEWSHOUR" BEFORE BEING ABDUCT
IP SYRIA NEARLY TWO YEARS AGO.
THE MILITANTS RELEASED A VIDEO
OF THE EXECUTION IT WAS TITLED
"A MESSAGE TO AMERICA" THEY
WARNED IN RECENT DAYS OF
RETALIATION FOR U.S. AIRSTRIKES
IN IRAQ.
GOVERNMENT FORCES IN IRAQ MADE A
BRIEF ASSAULT TODAY ON "ISLAMIC
STATE" FIGHTERS HOLDING TIKRIT.
THE EFFORT, NORTH OF BAGHDAD,
WAS HALTED AFTER A FEW HOURS, IN
THE FACE OF STIFF RESISTANCE BY
THE MILITANTS.
THIS, ONE DAY AFTER KURDISH
TROOPS RECAPTURED A VITAL DAM
NEAR MOSUL.
JOHN RAY OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS FILED THIS
REPORT.
>> Reporter: HERE, THIS ISLAMIC
STATE LIES IN RUINS, THEIR NEW
CALIPHATE SHATTERED, THEIR
FIGHTERS VANQUISHED THEIR
WEAPONS DESTROYED.
THEY LEAVE BEHIND A LEGACY OF
TERROR.
>> WE JUST WANT, OH MY GOD, OH
MY GOD.
>> Reporter: ABU YOSEF AND HIS
WIFE ARE TOO SCARED TO SHOW
THEIR FACES.
THEY KNOW THE JIHADISTS BARBARIC
CREED.
>> THEY KILLED MY FATHER.
MY FATHER IS A POLICEMAN.
>> Reporter: THIS IS THE ROAD TO
THE MOSUL DAM.
ONCE A SYMBOL OF THE MILITANTS'
LIMITLESS AMBITION, TODAY A SIGN
THAT THEY CAN BE DEFEATED.
THE KURDISH FLAG FLIES HERE NOW.
BUT THE VICTORY HAS BEEN PAID
FOR IN PESHMERGA BLOOD.
THE FIGHTING WAS HARD?
>> YES.
IT WAS VERY, VERY HARD.
>> Reporter: THEY SAY THE MEN
WHO FOUGHT UNDER BLACK BANNER OF
GOD WERE DEVIOUS AND CUNNING AND
THEY SOWED THE SEEDS OF FURTHER
DESTRUCTION AND THE BOOBY-
TRAPPED BOMBS THEY LEFT BEHIND.
THEY'VE DISARMED HUNDREDS, BUT
THE OPERATION IS NEVER ROUTINE.
SUCCESS NEVER GUARANTEED.
WE WELCOMED TO THE DAM THE
TRIUMPHANT COMMANDER OF KURDISH.
>> HOW ARE YOU?
BIG VICTORY.
>> Reporter: GENERAL MANSOUR
BARZANI TOLD ME THE ISLAMIC
STATE IS FINISHED.
BUT JUST HOW FAR HIS MEN WILL
CHASE THEIR QUARY IS BY NO MEANS
CLEAR.
THE REMORSELESS RISE OF THE
ISLAMIC STATE HAS BEEN HAUNTED
ON THIS DAM.
FOR THESE PESHMERGA FIGHTERS,
IT'S BEEN ABOUT PROTECTING THEIR
OWN BORDERS, NOT ABOUT FREEING
IRAQ FROM THE JIHADISTS WHO
STILL CONTROL SO MUCH OF THE
NATION
THE MOSUL DAM HAS BEEN RETAKEN
MORE OR LESS IN TACT BECAUSE
AMERICAN AIR POWER TRUMPED THE
ISLAMIC STATE'S BELIEF IN THEIR
DIVINE RIGHT TO RULE.
WRECKING FORCES MUST TAKE UP THE
BATTLE THEIR VICTORY IS BY NO
MEANS SECURE.
>> Woodruff: ALSO TODAY, THE
U.N. SAID IT'S LAUNCHING A MAJOR
AID OPERATION FOR THOSE
DISPLACED BY FIGHTING IN
NORTHERN IRAQ, STARTING
TOMORROW.
LOCAL OFFICIALS IN AFGHANISTAN
REPORT UP TO 700 TALIBAN
FIGHTERS ARE ON THE OFFENSIVE
JUST AN HOUR SOUTH OF KABUL.
THE GOVERNOR OF LOGAR PROVINCE
SAID THE FIGHTING IS FOCUSED ON
A KEY DISTRICT.
THE TALIBAN CLAIMED MAJOR
ADVANCES.
MILITANT ATTACKS HAVE BECOME
LARGER IN SCALE AS NATO COMBAT
FORCES AND AIR COVER MOVE TO
WITHDRAW BY YEAR'S END.
UKRAINE'S MILITARY PRESSED IT'S
OFFENSIVE TODAY TO RETAKE TWO
REBEL-HELD CITIES NEAR THE
RUSSIAN BORDER.
FLAMES ENGULFED BUILDINGS IN THE
BESIEGED CITY OF LUHANSK AND THE
OUTSKIRTS OF DONETSK AFTER
SHELLING ATTACKS.
GOVERNMENT TROOPS HAVE BEEN
STEADILY CLOSING IN ON REBELS IN
BOTH CITIES.
FLASH-FLOODING WASHED OUT MAJOR
HIGHWAYS ALL AROUND THE PHOENIX,
ARIZONA AREA TODAY.
MONSOON RAIN OF UP TO EIGHT
INCHES TRIGGERED THE DELUGE.
A MUDDY TORRENT POURED DOWN ONE
SECTION OF INTERSTATE 17,
FORCING OFFICIALS TO CLOSE A 15-
MILE STRETCH AND REDIRECT
TRAFFIC.
A NUMBER OF PEOPLE HAD TO BE
RESCUED FROM ROOF-TOPS AND
SUBMERGED CARS.
TEXAS GOVERNOR RICK PERRY HEADED
TO AN AUSTIN COURTHOUSE THIS
EVENING, TO BE BOOKED ON CHARGES
OF ABUSING POWER.
AN INDICTMENT FRIDAY ACCUSED THE
REPUBLICAN LEADER OF USING A
VETO THREAT TO COERCE A
DEMOCRATIC DISTRICT ATTORNEY.
PERRY IS A POSSIBLE PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATE IN 2016.
HE SAYS THE CASE IS POLITICALLY
MOTIVATED.
ON WALL STREET, THE DOW JONES
INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE GAINED NEARLY
81 POINTS TO CLOSE AT 16,919.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 19 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,527.
AND THE S-AND-P 500 ADDED NEARLY
TEN POINTS, TO FINISH AT 1,981.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
HOW RACE COLORS PERCEPTIONS OF
WHAT'S HAPPENING IN FERGUSON;
THE HEAD OF DOCTORS WITHOUT
BORDERS ON THE EBOLA OUTBREAK IN
WEST AFRICA;
ONE REGION OF INDONESIA TURNS TO
SHARIA LAW AFTER A DEVASTATING
TSUNAMI;
AND, CITIZEN SCIENTISTS CAPTURE
IMAGES OF A NEWLY DISCOVERED
CREATURE IN THE WILD.
>> Woodruff: WE TURN OUR FOCUS
AGAIN TO THE SITUATION IN
FERGUSON, MISSOURI.
WE START WITH REPORTER YAMICHE
ALCINDOR FROM USA TODAY.
I SPOKE WITH HER A SHORT TIME
AGO.
THANK YOU FOR TALKING WITH US
AGAIN.
IT SOUNDS AS IF THINGS WERE CALM
THERE IN FERGUSON UNTIL THIS
SHOOTING THIS AFTERNOON OVER IN
ST. LOUIS, WE JUST HEARD FROM
THE POLICE COLONEL AT THAT TIME
TON, WHAT IS MORE THAT YOU CAN
AT ABOUT WHAT HAPPENED?
>> I JUST IN II VIEWEDWITNESS WM
TO FINISH THE SHOOTING HAPPENED
ABOUT, ABOUT TWO MINUTES HE SAID
THAT A MANY AMERICANED FROM A
VEEPS STORE HOLDING DONUTS AND
JUICE AND SAYING "HE STOLE THIS"
THE POLICE SHOWED UP AND
SCREAMED TO FREEZE TO PUT -- TO
COME TO THEM.
THE MAN INSTEAD PULLED OUT A
KNIFE AND WAS WAVING IT AT
POLICE, AT THAT TIME THAT POLICE
PULLED OUT THEIR WEAPONS AND
SHOT THEM ABOUT TEN TIMES,
THAT'S WHAT THE EYENE
ME.
PEOPLE IN THAT NEWLYWED ARE SO
SCARED.
I TALKED TO A WOMAN WHO LIVED
THERE FOR 48 YEARS SAID, PLEASE,
I HOPE WHAT HAPPENED IN FERGUSON
DOESN'T HAPPEN IN MY COMMUNITY.
>> Woodruff:  WHAT IS THE RACE
OF THE POLICE OFFICERS AND MAN
WHO WAS SHOT?
>> EYEWITNESS TOLD ME THAT THE
OFFICERS WERE WHITE AND THE
YOUNG MAN WAS AFRICAN AMERICAN.
THAT OF COURSE WAS -- FROM
EYEWITNESS THAT I INTERVIEWED.
I'M NOT SURE IF HE PUT OUT THE
RACE OF THE OFFICERS.
>> Woodruff:  TELL ME AT THIS
POINT I KNOW THIS JUST HAPPENED
A SHORT TIME AGO, DO YOU GET A
SENSE THAT PEOPLE ARE UPSET BY
THIS?
DO THEY SEE THIS CONNECTED TO
WHAT IS GOING ON IN FERGUSON OR
SOMETHING UNRELATED?
>> PEOPLE ARE REALLY, REALLY
UPSET.
AS SOON AS I WAS DRIVING OVER TO
THE SCENE AS SOON AS I PARKED MY
CAR I START HEARING PEOPLE
SCREAM SNOOK DON'T SHOOT, HANDS
UP" THAT HAS BEEN THE RALLYING
CRY FOR PEOPLE SUPPORTING
MICHAEL BROWN'S FAMILY.
PEOPLE MADE THE CONNECTION AND
INSTANTLY TALKING ABOUT MICHAEL
BROWN AT THIS NEW SHOOTING SCENE
SAYING THAT HERE IS ANOTHER
YOUNG BLACK MAN WHO IS BEING
KILLED BY POLICE.
THEY DID OF COURSE SAY THAT HE
WAS WAVING A KNIFE IN FRONT OF
POLICE AND THOUGHT, OKAY, WELL
THAT'S STILL PROVOKING THE
POLICE.
POLICE WHY COULDN'T THEY HAVE
TASED HIM OR SHOT HIM IN THE
LEG.
SHOOT THEM TEN TIMES FOR
STEALING DONUTS AND JUICE.
>> Woodruff:  RIGHT.
I KNOW ONE OF THE REPORTS I
HEARD WAS THAT THE MAN WAS
LUNGING AT THE POLICE WITH THE
KNIFE.
WE'RE WAITING FOR MORE
INFORMATION ON THAT.
BEFORE THIS HAPPENED, THE
AUTHORITIES WERE ASKING PEOPLE
TO PLEASE PROTEST IN THE
DAYLIGHT HOURS RATHER THAN AT
NIGHT.
HOW ARE PEOPLE RESPONDING TO
THAT IN FERGUSON?
>> DAYLIGHT, IT'S STILL DAYLIGHT
HERE IN FERGUSON WHAT IS GOING
TO BE IMPORTANT IS WHAT HAPPENS
WHEN NIGHT FALLS.
I CAN'T TELL WHAT YOU IS GOING
TO HAPPEN BUT I GET A STEPS JUST
BECAUSE I'VE BEEN HERE HERE MORE
THAN A WEEK THAT PEOPLE ARE NOT
GOING TO GO HOME WHEN THE SUN
SETS.
PEOPLE WERE SUPER ANGRY AT THAT
NEW SHOOTING SCENE SAYING THAT
THEY'RE GOING TO VOICE THEIR
OPINION, THAT THEY'RE GOING TO
PROTEST T.
PEOPLE SAID THAT QUICK TRIP HAS
BEEN GROUND ZERO FOR THE
PROTESTERS OF MICHAEL BROWN THEY
SAID THAT WE'RE GOING BACK AND I
THINK THAT IT WOULD NOT SURPRISE
ME IF WE SAW PEOPLE, DOZENS OF
PEOPLE MAYBE IEP HUNDREDS OF
PEOPLE AT QUICK TRIP TODAY BUT
AGAIN BECAUSE IT'S STILL NOT
SUNSET HERE I CAN'T SAY WHAT'S
GOING TO HAPPEN.
>> Woodruff:  JUST QUICKLY,
ARE THERE VOICES, LEADERS IN THE
COMMUNITY WHO ARE URGING PEOPLE
TO STEP BACK, TOAL WHAT
ARE THE LEADING VOICES SAYING
NOW?
>> IT WAS VERY INTERESTING.
AS SOON AS THE POLICE FINISHED
THEIR PRESS CONFERENCE TELLING
THE MEDIA AND MEMBERS OF THE
COMMUNITY WHAT HAPPENED WITH
THIS NEW SHOOTING, ANTONIO
FRENCHA POLITICIAN HERE IN
FERGUSON THEN TALKED TO THE
CROWD AND SAID, THIS IS -- WE'RE
GOING TO BE PATIENT IN OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD, I PROMISE WE'RE
GOING TO FIGURE OUT WHAT
HAPPENED WITH THIS YOUNG MAN,
PLEASE BE PATIENT.
HE START URGING PEOPLE IN THE
CROWD WHO WERE SCREAMING "DON'T
SHOOT" HE SAID, PLEASE, PROTEST
IF YOU WANT TO BUT TRY TO REMAIN
PATIENT.
TRY TO REMAIN CALM.
SO AS SOON AS THE SHOOTING
HAPPENED, AS SOON AS POLICE
STARTED TELLING PEOPLE WHAT
HAPPENED, THE COMMUNITY REACTED
INSTANTLY STARTED TELLING
PEOPLE, PLEASE KEEP THE PEACE,
PLEASE DON'T LOOT AND JUST GO
HOME AND TRY TO BE AS PEACEFUL
AS YOU CAN WHEN YOU'RE
PROTESTING.
>> Woodruff:  WE WILL SEE WHAT
HAPPENS IN THE HOURS TO COME.
YAMICHE ALCINDOR WITH USA TODAY.
THANK YOU FOR TALKING WITH US
AGAIN.
>> Woodruff: DAILY LIFE HAS BEEN
DRAMATICALLY DISRUPTED FOR THE
CITIZENS OF FERGUSON, AND THAT'S
ESPECIALLY TRUE FOR THE TOWN'S
CHILDREN.
SCHOOLS HAVE BEEN CLOSED ALL
WEEK.
IN ADDITION TO EDUCATION, THEY
ARE THE SOURCE OF MEALS FOR MANY
KIDS IN THE COMMUNITY.
THE NEWSHOUR'S QUINN BOWMAN IS
THERE AND SPOKE THIS AFTERNOON
WITH JANA SHORTT THE SPOKESWOMAN
FOR THE SCHOOL DISTRICT.
>> IT'S BEEN REALLY IF YOU HAVE
PERIOD FOR FERGUSON AND
SURROUNDING AREAS, TALK TO ME
SPECIFICALLY ABOUT HOW IT
AFFECTS THE KIDS HERE.
>> YES.
BASIC NEEDSHILDREN ARE
BEING AFFECTED BY THIS CONFLICT.
OUR SCHOOL DISTRICT SERVES -- WE
HAVE MORE THAN 75% FREE AND
REDUCED LUNCH.
WE HAVE STUDENTS THAT RELY ON
SCHOOL FOR FOOD.
AND SO WE WISH T WE WERE
IN SCHOOL THESE THINGS WOULD BE
RECEIVING MEALS.
WE'VE TAKEN STEPS TO MAKE SURE
THAT THEY CAN HAVE ACCESS TO
THAT FOOD BY SERVING LUNCHES IN
THE COMING DAYS.
>> WHY HAVE YOU DECIDED TO CLOSE
THE SCHOOLS IN FERGUSON?
>> CERTAINLY, OUR DECISION TO
CLOSE SCHOOL REALLY REFLECTS THE
SERIOUSNESS OF THE SITUATION.
WE HAVE CONCERNS ABOUT OUR
STUDENTS' SAFETY, GETTING TO
SCHOOL.
ROADS BEING CLOSED, ACCESS TO
AND FROM BUILDINGS, DEBRIS ON
THE STREETS FROM THESE NIGHTLY
CONFLICTS THAT ARE IN THE AREA,
PARTICULARLY CLOSE TO WHERE SOME
OF THE PROTESTS ARE OCCURRING.
YOU HAVE TO IMAGINE THAT NIGHTLY
HEARING THE SOUND CANNONS AND
THEY'RE BEING KEPT AWAY AND
THERE ARE FAMILY SCHEDULES ARE
BEING DISRUPTED.
IT'S HARD FOR SOME OF THEM TO
LEAVE THE HOUSE, TO GET FOOD AND
OTHER THINGS.
THEY SHOULD BE TOP OF MIND FOR
ALL OF US AND SERVING THEM AND
HELPING THEM GET BACK TO
NORMALCY IS ESSENTIAL.
>> WHEN THE KIDS COME BACK, WHAT
DO YOU EXPECT?
>> WE'RE JUST SO EAGER TO GET
OUR STUDENTS BACK IN THE
CLASSROOM.
WE THINK SOME IMPORTANT
CONVERSATIONS ARE GOING TO
HAPPEN IN OUR CLASSROOM WHEN
KIDS GET BACK TO SCHOOL.
BUT WE CAN'T BRING THEM BACK TO
SCHOOL UNTIL IT'S SAFE TO DO SO.
>> Woodruff:  IT TURNS
>> Woodruff: IT TURNS OUT THERE
IS A SHARP RACIAL DIVIDE IN THE
UNITED STATES WHEN IT COMES TO
REACTIONS TO THE SHOOTING OF
MICHAEL BROWN AND THE ONGOING
PROTESTS IN FERGUSON.
THAT'S ONE OF THE FINDINGS
REVEALED IN A NEW SURVEY BY THE
PEW RESEARCH CENTER.
TO EXPLAIN, CARROLL DOHERTY,
DIRECTOR OF POLITICAL RESEARCH
THERE, JOINS US.
OUT WE
THANK YOU.
>> THANKS FOR INVITING ME.
>> Woodruff:  YOUR POLL DONE
NATIONALLY AUGUST 14-16, DONE
LAST THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY YOU
WERE JUST TELLING ME.
AND IT SHOWS REALLY SOME STARK
FINDINGS ABUT HOW WHITES AND
BLACKS VIEW THE QUESTION OF
WHETHER RACE IS AN ISSUE HERE.
>> THAT'S THE FIRST QUESTION.
WHETHER RACE IS AN ISSUE OR
WHETHER IT'S GETTING TOO MUCH
ATTENTION.
80% OF AFRICAN AMERICANS SAY
THIS CASE RAISES IMPORTANT
ISSUES ABOUT RACE AMUCK WHITES,
MORE DIVIDED VIEWS BUT 47% SAY
ISSUE OF RACE HAS GOTTEN TOO
MUCH ATTENTION.
OF STARK DIVISION RIGHT OFF THE
BAT.
>> Woodruff:  YOU WERE TELLING
ME OVER THE COURSE OF THE DAYS
YOU WERE IN THE FIELD WITH
QUESTIONS, SOME OF THESE ANSWERS
WERE SHIFTING.
>> WELL, CERTAINLY THE
CIRCUMSTANCES WERE SHIFTING,
ESPECIALLY CAME TO THE QUESTIONS
ABOUT THE POLICE RESPONSE.
BECAUSE THAT CHANGED NIGHT BY
NIGHT.
>> THE SHARPEST IS JUST --
ABSOLUTELY.
>> 80% OF BLACKS SAYING RAISES
IMPORTANT QUESTIONS.
>> TWICE AS MANY BLACKS.
>> Woodruff:  THE NEXT -- ONE
OF THE NEXT QUESTIONS YOU ASKED
WAS ABOUT POLICE RESPONSE
WHETHER THE POLICE HAVE GONE TOO
FAR IN FERGUSON OR WHETHER THEIR
REACTION IS ABOUT RIGHT.
>> AGAIN TWO, TO ONE.
65% OF BLACKS, 33% OF WHITES SAY
THE POLICE RESPONSE HAS GONE TOO
FAR.
A HUGE DISPARITY THERE.
>> Woodruff:  AND NATIONALLY
IT'S 40 TO 28 BUT THE REALLY
STARK CHANGE THERE IS THE
DIFFERENCE THERE IS BETWEEN
BLACKS AND WHITES.
AND FINALLY, CARROLL DOREHTY HOW
MUCH CONFIDENCE DID PEOPLE HAVE
IN THE INVESTIGATION OF THE
SHOOTING.
THE QUESTION WAS DO YOU HAVE A
GREAT DEAL OR FAIR AMOUNT OF
CONFIDENCE OR NOT TOO MUCH OR
NONE AT ALL.
AND HERE AMONG BLACKS 76% SAID
NOT TOO MUCH OR DONE AT ALL.
>> WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE NOT AT
ALLS, 45% OF AFRICAN AMERICANS
SAY THEY HAVE NO CONFIDENCE AT
ALL IN THE INVESTIGATION GOING
FORWARD.
>> Woodruff:  WHAT DO THESE
NUMBERS, YOU'VE BEEN LOOKING AT
RACIAL ALTITUDE IN THIS COUNTRY
FOR A LONG TIME.
WHAT DO YOU THINK THESE NUMBERS
SAYRE OUR COUNTRY IS
WHEN IT COMES TO UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN THE RACES HOW WE VIEW
RACE RELATIONS, 50 YEARS AFTER
THE PASSAGE OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS
ACT.
>> IT'S HISTORY AND ITS PERSONAL
EXPERIENCE.
THIS IS YET ANOTHER INCIDENT
LIKE THIS.
TRAYVON MARTIN, RODNEY KING,
ANOTHER IN SERIES WHERE YOU SEE
BLACKS AND WHITES TAKING VERY
DIFFERENT VIEWS OF THE
CIRCUMSTANCE, THE POLICE
RESPONSE, WHAT IT MEANS TO
SOCIETY.
THEN PERSONAL EXPERIENCE.
WHEN WE ASKED LAST YEAR ABOUT
DISCRIMINATION IN THEIR
COMMUNITY, 70% OF BLACKS SAY
THEY'RE TREATED LESS FAIRLY THAN
WHITES BY THE POLICE IN THEIR
OWN COMMUNITY.
NUMBER THAT HASN'T CHANGE ADD
LOT.
>> Woodruff:  I WAS GOING TO
ASK YOUL THESE ARE NUMBERS THAT
YOU'VE SEEN CHANGE APPRECIATABLY
OVER TIME, CONSISTENT OVER THE
DECADES.
>> CONFIDENCE IN POLICE HAS NOT
CHANGED AMONG AFRICAN AMERICANS.
EVEN WHITES FOR THAT
MUCH.
>> .
>> Woodruff:  THIS IS A
QUESTION YOU'VE CONTINUED TO
ASK.
>> RIGHT, YES.
AND YOU SEE THIS IN VARIETY OF
WAYS.
YOU SEE DISCRIMINATION, BLACKS
SEE DISCRIMINATION IN MANY AREAS
OF LIFE.
BUT THE ONES THAT ARE SEEM TO BE
MOST PRONOUNCED ARE IN THE AREA
OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE AND THE WAY
POLICE OPERATE IN THEIR
COMMUNITY.
>> Woodruff:  IT'S REALLY
STUNNING NUMBERS HERE.
>> RIGHT.
>> Woodruff:  WE THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: HOW TO DEAL WITH
TACTICS WE HAVE RETURN TO GIL
ALBA A 28-YEAR VETERAN OF THE
NEW YORK CITY POLICE DEPARTMENT
WHERE HE WAS A DETECTIVE.
HE NOW RUNS A PRIVATE SECURITY
RM
AND RONALD HAMPTON, WORKED FOR
23 YEARS AS COMMUNITY RELATIONS
OFFICER FOR THE METROPOLITAN
POLICE IN WASHINGTON, D.C.
HE ALSO SERVED AS EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR OF THE NATIONAL BLACK
POLICE ASSOCIATION FOR TWO
DECADES.
TODAY TEACHES CRIMINAL JUSTICE
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
WE WELCOME YOU BOTH.
I WANT TO START BY TALKING TO
YOU ABOUT WHY THE AUTHORITIES IN
FERGUSON ARE HAVING SO MUCH
DIFFICULTY GETTING THE SITUATION
TO CALM DOWN.
RONALD HAMPTON, HOW DO YOU SEE
THIS?
>> I THINK THE FIRST MISTAKES
WERE MADE IN THE BEGINNING WHEN
THE CHIEF WASN'T OPEN AND HONEST
AND TRANSPARENT WITH THE
INFORMATION ABOUT WHAT HAD
HAPPENED, WHO WAS INVOLVED.
WHEN THE REPORT WOULD BE
RELEASED.
TALKING ABOUT THE CIRCUMSTANCES
OF IT, THERE IS A LOT OF
INFORMATION THAT KEY HAVE GIVEN
UP NOON I THINK WOULD HAVE GIVEN
PEOPLE SOME INFORMATION TO WORK
WITH AND THEN AS INFORMATION
BEGAN TO COME OUT MORE
INFORMATION TO HANDLE THAT
INFORMATION GIVEN.
>> Woodruff:  EXCUSE ME.
GO AHEAD.
EVEN IF IT'S PARTIAL INFORMATION
YOU'RE SAYING GET IT OUT THERE.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
I THINK SO BU
LOOKING FOR TRANSPARENCY.
FOR EXAMPLE, IF A CRIME HAPPENS
IN OUR COMMUNITY THE FIRST THING
THE PEOPLE WANT -- POLICE WANT
TO DO IS TALK TO THE PEOPLE THAT
THEY ARE GETTING INFORMATION TO
HELP SOLVE THE CRIME.
THEN AS INFORMATION BECOMES
AVAILABLE THEN THEY ARM THE
COMMUNITY WITH IT BECAUSE IT'S
THINGS ARE HAPPENING.
IT DIDN'T HAPPEN IN THIS
INCIDENT, I BELIEVE THAT THAT
WAS ONE OF THE LEADING FACTORS
IN TERMS OF THE KIND OF THINGS
THAT WE'RE DEALING WITH NOW.
>> Woodruff:  GIL ALBA HOW DO
YOU SIZE UP THE DIFFICULTY THE
AUTHORITIES ARE HAVING AND WHAT
ABOUT WHAT MR. HAMPTON JUST
SAID?
>> YOU KNOW, THEY SHOULD HAVE
CAME OUT WITH SOMETHING AT THE
BEGINNING AND REALLY I DON'T
REALLY THINK THAT IS THE PROBLEM
WITH THE RIGHTING.
THE ANGER AND THAT WAS LONG
COMING I THINK IN THIS --
PROBABLY IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD.
AND I THINK THE POLICE NOW AND
THE COMMUNITY HAVE TO GET
TOGETHER WHICH IS NOT EASY AFTER
THE RIOTERS.
ONCE YOU HAVE RIOTERS AND
LOOTING IT TURNS OFF AMERICA IN
A SENSE AND IT TAKES SO MUCH
AWAY FROM MICHAEL BROWN, WHAT
HAPPENED TO HIM AND IT'S REALLY
NOT ABOUT HIM ANY MORE IT'S
ABOUT THE LOOTERS AND THE
RIOTERS AND THEN THE POLICE.
POLICE ARE SHOWING A LOT OF
RESTRAINTS RIGHT NOW BECAUSE
MOLOTOV COCKTAILS BEING THROWN,
THERE HAS TO STOP AT SOME POINT.
AND NOT AN EASY JOB EVEN THE
NATIONAL GUARDS COULDN'T STOP IT
AT THIS POINT.
>> Woodruff:  RONALD HAMPTON,
HOW DO YOU BRING A COMMUNITY
TOGETHER AFTER YOU'VE HAD
INCIDENT LIKE THIS?
>> YOU KNOW, I DON'T KNOW IF MY
FRIEND IN NEW YORK, BUT SOME
YEARS AGO THERE WAS GENTLEMAN
WHO WAS POLICE COMMISSIONER IP
BALTIMORE, THOMAS PRAYERER, HE
HAD INCOWBOYED THE TERM HE WAS
ONE OF THE PEOPLE WHO WERE
INVOLVED IN EARLY COMMUNITY
POLICING, HE TALKED ABOUT
POLICING DEVELOPING COMMUNITY
CAPITAL.
IT WAS COMMUNITY CAPITAL AS
CONCEPT WHERE, YOU KNOW, POLICE
AND COMMUNITY RELATIONSHIP IS
LIKE A MARRIAGE, IT'S UP AND
DOWN.
IF YOU BUILD UP THAT CAPITAL
WITH YOUR COMMUNITY BECAUSE
THERE'S GOING TO BE DOWN TIME,
YOU'VE ALREADY BUILT UP SOME
CAPITAL AND THEN YOU CAN LIVE ON
THAT CAPITAL.
BUT YOU GOT TO WORK ON THAT
RELATIONSHIP.
OBVIOUSLY THE PEOPLE IN FERGUSON
DIDN'T HAVE IN THE COMMUNITY
CAPITAL BECAUSE OF ISSUES WITH
POLICING IN THAT CITY AND
SURROUNDING AREA AS WELL AS
OTHER SOCIAL ECONOMIC ISSUES
GOING ON IN THEIR TOWN.
THAT'S WHAT THE LOOTING IS
ABOUT.
BUT YOU CAPTAIN GET AROUND ALL
THOSE ISSUES BECAUSE THE
INCIDENT WITH MICHAEL BROWN WAS
INCIDENT THAT TOUCHED OFF THE
WHOLE THING.
BUT THESE FUMES HAVE BEEN IN THE
ROOM FOR AN AWFUL LONG TIME.
THAT'S THE WAY IT SEEMS TO WORK.
WHETHER IT'S NEW YORK OR WHETHER
IT'S L.A.
WHETHER IT'S WASHINGTON, D.C.
>> Woodruff:  GILAL ALBA YOU
AGREE THINGS COULD HAVE BON
GIFTLY BEFORE THIS EVER
HAPPENED IN THE FIRST PLACE.
>> I'M SURPRISED THAT THIS --
I'VE BEEN IN TO MANY RIOTS LIKE
THIS, THROUGH THE YEARS I'M
SURPRISED THAT HERE IN AMERICA
THIS IS THE SAME ISSUES AND
REALLY THERE'S A PROBLEM THERE
AND IT IS BETWEEN THE COMMUNITY
AND THE POLICE AND THEY SHOULD
HAVE BEEN BUILDING UP SOME
RAPPORT WITH THE COMMUNITY FOR A
LONG TIME.
>> BUT IN THE ABSENCE OF THAT,
WE'VE BEEN TALKING ABOUT THIS ON
THE "NEWSHOUR" THE LAST FEW DAYS
ABOUT THE FACT THAT THE POLICE
FORCE IS NOT REPRESENTATIVE
RACIALLY OF THE COMMUNITY, WITH
THE COMMUNITY CHANGED VERY
RAPIDLY, RACIALLY, WHAT DOES ONE
DO?
THEY TALKED ABOUT TRYING, ADDED
CURFEWS AND TAKEN THEM AWAY, THE
AUTHORITIES ARE NOW ASKING
PEOPLE TO PROTEST DURING THE DAY
RATHER THAN AT NIGHT BUT THEN
YOU HAVE ANOTHER SHOOTING TODAY.
WHAT ARE THE AUTHORITIES TO DO,
OR OTHER LEADERS IN THE
COMMUNITY?
MR. ALBA.
>> THAT WAS A SEPARATE INCIDENT
IN ST. LOUIS WITH THE SHOOTING.
WITH THAT ST. LOUIS SHOOTING
THEY CAME OUT TOLD YOU EXACTLY
WHAT WAS GOING ON AND WHY THE
SHOOTING.
YOU KIND OF FELT A LOT BETTER
KNOWING WHAT WAS GOING ON WITH
WHAT THE WITH IT SUNS SAYING.
HERE NOTHING COMES OUT.
I DON'T EVEN KNOW REALLY WHAT
HAPPENED SO FAR WITH THE
SHOOTING AND WHAT HAPPENED
BECAUSE OF SO MANY CONFLICTING
STORIES.
THAT HAS TO DO A LOT WITH THE
ANGER AND THE PROTESTS BUT THE
PROTESTS ARE DAYTIME THEY'RE
MUCH DIFFERENT THAN THEY ARE AT
NIGHT TIME.
DAYTIME YOU GOT REGULAR MOVING
PROTESTERS AT NIGHT YOU HAVE
DIFFERENT SET OF PEOPLE THAT ARE
LOOTING AND GOING OUT AND
THROWING MOLOTOV COCKTAILS AND
DOING SOMETHING ELSE.
THE POLICE ARE TRYING TO BE --
TRYING TO RESTRAIN THEMSELVES UP
TO A POINT.
AND HOPEFULLY THEY KEEP DOING
THAT.
THERE IS LOT OF INSTIGATORS
COMING FROM ACROSS THE COUNTRY
TRYING TO AIN'T TAKE GAIT THE
POLICE IN TO TAKING ACTION.
>> Woodruff:  WE'VE BEEN
REPORTING ON THAT.
RONALD HAMPTON WHO ARE THE MAIN
THINGS THINGS THAT SHOULD HAPPEN
RIGHT NOW.
SHOULD AUTHORITIES BE FOCUSED.
>> I THINK IT'S TIME TO START
PULLING TOGETHER COMMUNITY
MEMBERS.
THOSE WHO HAVE KEY ROLES IN THE
MISSOURI HOUSE, LOCAL
DELEGATION, LOCAL COUNCIL
PEOPLE, COMMUNITY LEADERS TO
START TALKING ABOUT IDENTIFYING
WHAT THE ISSUES ARE.
AND THEN DEVELOPING STRATEGIES
ON TERMS OF HOW WE'RE GOING TO
DO IT.
SHORT TERM, LONG TERM GOALS
BECAUSE THERE ARE SOME THINGS WE
CAN TAKE CARE OF, SOME THINGS
TAKE CARE OF LATER.
WE NEED TO TALK ABOUT THE
GOVERNMENT AND ELECTED OFFICIALS
REPRESENTING THE COMMUNITY THEY
SERVE.
YOU CAN'T CHANGE THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT OVERNIGHT BUT CLEARLY
I SUGGEST IF YOU WERE TO TALK TO
THE POLICE OFFICERS, THE THREE
BLACK POLICE OFFICERS ON POLICE
DEPARTMENT THEY WILL PROBABLY
TELL YOU ABOUT ISSUES THAT THEY
ARE EXPERIENCING IN THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT THAT THEY ONLY MAKE
UP THREE OUT OF 53.
BUT YOU HAVE TO COME TOGETHER TO
TALK ABOUT THOSE ISSUES,
STRATEGIC APPROACH TO DOING IT
TAKING IT ONE BY ONE THEN THE
REST OF THE INDIVIDUALS, YOU'RE
GOING TO NEED SOME ASSISTANTS
AND RESOURCES BUT THEY HAVE TO
SOLVE THAT THEMSELVES.
>> Woodruff:  GIL ALBA, WHAT
WOULD YOU ADD TO THAT?
WHAT IS THE MAIN THING THAT
NEEDS TO BE DONE RIGHT NOW?
>> DEFINITELY THE POLICE AND THE
COMMUNITY, IT'S REALLY OUTSIDERS
COMING IN, SHARPTON AND THOSE I
DON'T KNOW HOW MUCH THEY WOULD
HELP.
REALLY THE PEOPLE IN THE
COMMUNITY DESPITE THE -- JUST
LIKE THE OFFICER WAS SAYING THEY
HAVE TO GET TOGETHER WITH THE
POLICE, THE POLICE HAVE TO COME
OUT AND SHOW THEM THAT THEY'RE
PART OF THE COMMUNITY AND HAVE
REPRESENTATIVE LIKE THE
COMMUNITY AND THE POLICE.
I DON'T REALLY THINK ANYBODY TO
TALK TO THE COMMUNITY WITH THE
POLICE.
REALLY YOU HAVE TO START MAKING
GROUNDS RIGHT NOW AND START
BUILDING RAPPORT WITH THEM.
>> COULD START WITH CAPTAIN
JOHNSON.
THEY -- HE WAS EXCELLENT ROLE.
HE HAS RESOURCES, HE HAS
CAPITAL.
HE WAS FROM THAT COMMUNITY.
THEY COULD START WITH HIM.
I THINK HE HAS A SENSE OF WHAT
SOME OF ISSUES ARE AS WELL AS
WHAT IT IS THAT WE NEED TO BE
DOING.
>> TWO FORMER POLICE OFFICERS --
THANK YOU.
TWO FORMER POLICE OFFICERS
TALKING WITH GIL ALBA, RAN OLD
HAMPTONA TOUGH SITUATION.
WE THANK YOU BOTH.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING US.
>> Woodruff: NOW, THE CHALLENGE
OF CONTAINING THE EBOLA OUTBREAK
IN WEST AFRICA.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THAT.
>> Brown: THE WORLD HEALTH
ORGANIZATION TODAY SAID THE
EPIDEMIC'S OFFICIAL DEATH TOLL
NOW TOPS 1,200, AMID GROWING
CONCERN THAT LOCAL RESOURCES OF
ALL KINDS ARE BEING STRAINED TO
THE LIMIT.
OVER THE WEEKEND, THE AID GROUP
DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS OPENED
ITS LARGEST FACILITY YET FOR
TREATING EBOLA VICTIMS, NEAR THE
LIBERIAN CAPITAL OF MONROVIA.
THE PRESIDENT OF DOCTORS WITHOUT
BORDERS, DR. JOANN LIU, JUST
RETURNED FROM THE REGION LAST
WEEK.
I SPOKE WITH HER EARLIER TODAY,
FROM THE "NEW YORK TIMES"
NEWSROOM.
DOCTOR, THANK YOU FOR JOINING
US.
LET ME ASK YOU ABOUT THE FIRST
TREATMENT CENTER WHAT YOU ARE
AND ARE NOT ABLE TO DO ON THE
GROUND RIGHT NOW.
WHAT KIND OF TREATMENT ARE
PEOPLE ACTUALLY GETTING?
>> WELL, IN OUR EBOLA MEDICAL
CENTER WHAT WE OFFER IS
TREATMENT IN TERMS OF SUPPORT
TREATMENT TO PATIENTS WHO ARE
INFECTED.
SO THE WAY IT WORKS IN OUR
CENTER WE HAVE 120 BEDS, WE HAVE
AN AREA OF SUSPECTED CASE,
PROBABLE CASE AND CONFIRMED
CASE.
WHAT WE DO FOR PATIENT WE ENSURE
THAT THEY ARE WELL HYDRATED,
GIVE THEM ANTIBODY I CAN IF THEY
HAVE INFECTIONS WE MAKE SURE
THAT THEY HAVE AS WELL SOME PAIN
KILLERS.
>> Brown:  THERE'S BEEN A
CONTINUING PROBLEM OF PERSUADING
PEOPLE TO SEEK TREATMENT EVEN TO
THE POINT OF RIOT TO SHUT DOWN
ONE CLINIC HOW DANGEROUS IS THIS
AND HOW IS IT BEING ADDRESSED?
>> WELL, THISTHING THAT
WE'VE BEEN FACING SINCE THE
BEGINNING.
THIS IS A NORMAL, I WOULD SAY
HUMAN REACTION.
FEAR HAS BEEN CONSTANT, I WANT
TO SAY CHALLENGE BECAUSE IF
PEOPLE DO NOT UNDERSTAND WHAT IS
EBOLA, WHATRE THE FINDINGS AND
WHAT CAN WE DO FOR IT THEY WILL
CONTINUE TO HAVE SOME SORT OF
BEHAVIOR THAT SEEMS TO BE
RATIONAL FROM A DISTANCE.
BUT THE REALITY IS WHAT WE NEED
TO DO NOW IS TO INCREASE THE
HEALTH PROMOTION AND
UNDERSTANDING ABOUT WHAT IS
EBOLA.
>> Brown:  HOW HARD IS IT TO
REACH PEOPLE AND HOW EXACTLY ARE
YOU AND OTHERS DOING THAT?
>> WELL, I THINK IT'S A
CHALLENGE FOR SURE.
RIGHT NOW WE NEED TO MOBILIZE
MORE PEOPLE TO DO IT.
IT NEEDS TO HAPPEN AT THE
CENTRAL LEVEL, I THINK WE SHOULD
HAVE A STANDARDIZED MESSAGE IN
TERMS OF WHAT IS EBOLA, HOW TO
PREVENT IT MAKE SURE THAT WE ARE
IMPLEMENTING THE PRECAUTION
EVERYWHERE.
THIS NEEDS TO HAPPEN AT ALL
LEVEL, CENTRALLY AND CENTRALLY
IN THE COUNTRY.
>> Brown:  P.
>> Brown:  IN THE MEANTIME
THERE ARE REPORTS THAT THE
OUTBREAK IS HAVING A DANGEROUS
IMPACT ON THE LARGER HEALTH
SYSTEM IN THESE COUNTRIES, ARE
YOU SEEING THAT?
>> YEAH.
THIS IS WHAT I CALL THE
EMERGENCY WITHIN THE EMERGENCY.
THE EBOLA AND CONSEQUENCES OF
EBOLA.
ONE OF THE THINGS BEEN FACING IS
THE COLLAPSE OF THE HEALTH CARE
SYSTEM.
RIGHT NOW MOST OF THE HEALTH
CARE FACILITY ARE BEING CLOSED
MONROVIA.
WE'RE FACING THE DISTRESSING AND
EVENT OF THE FACT THAT PATIENT
DON'T HAVE ACCESS TO BASIC
HEALTH CARE.
BEING ABLE TO DELIVER OVER LAST
WEEK AND THEIR BABIES, PEOPLE
WITH MALARIA NOT ABLE TO FIND
TREATMENT BRYAN THEY'RE JUST
COMING IN TO THE HEIGHT OF THE
MALARIA SEASON, RIGHT?
>> THE RAINY SEASON HAS JUST
STARTED THIS IS WHY I BRING IT
UP.
THIS IS WHY TODAY THERE NEEDS TO
BE INCREASED CAPACITY IN THE
FIELD TO RESPOND TO EBOLA IN
TERMS OF HEALTH PROMOTION,
SURVEILLANCE, CONTACT TRACING
AND TREATMENT.
WE NEED TO BRING CAPACITY TO
RESTORE SOME BASIC HEALTH CARE
ACCESS TO THE GENERAL
POPULATION.
>> Brown:  SEVERAL DAYS AGO
YOUR ORGANIZATION PUT OUT
RELEASE SAYING RESPONSE TO THE
EPIDEMIC REMAINS, QUOTE,
DANGEROUSLY INADEQUATE.
THERE HAVE BEEN AT LEAST SOME
POSITIVE SIGNS IN RECENT DAYS
AND HOPES OF PERHAPS STOPPING A
WIDER SPREAD.
CAN YOU UPDATE THIS FOR US?
WHERE ARE WE NOW IN TERMS OF THE
OVERALL RESPONSE?
>> IT'S DIFFICULT TO SAY BECAUSE
I THINK MORE CAPACITY OR
PROMISES OF CAPACITY THAT IS
GOING TO BE SPENT.
THE THING IS AS FAR AS I'M
CONCERNED IN TO CONCRETE ACTION
IN THE FIELD, I WILL WAIT TO
COMMENT ON THIS.
I THINK PEOPLE ARE MORE
MOBILIZED.
BUT WEED TO GET PEOPLE WITH
HANDS-ON IN THE FIELD WHO ARE
WILLING TO ROLL UP THEIR SLEEVES
AND DO THE WORK.
NOTHING BEHIND COMPUTER, WE NEED
OPERATIONAL PEOPLE THAT ARE
GOING TO GO FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE
TO EXPLAIN WHAT IS EBOLA, GO
FROM HOUSE TO HOUSE TO GO FIND
OUT WHAT PEOPLE ARE SAYING.
WE NEED PEOPLE IN THE FIELD, TO
DO THE  W>> Brown:  IS THAT EFFT
COORDINATED WELL ENOUGH BETWEEN
GROUPS LIKE YOURS AND RESPECTIVE
GOVERNMENTS AND THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY BECAUSE
THERE HAVE BEEN SOME WORRIES
ABOUT THAT.
>> RIGHT HOW TO THERE IS TASK
FORCE, BUT REALITY NOT THAT MANY
PLAYERS IN THE FIELD.
IT'S NOT LIKE AFTER A NATURAL
DISASTER WHERE WE HAVE BASICALLY
THE FULL INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY
COMING AND GIVING A HAND.
ONLY A FEW PEOPLE WHO HAVE
RESPONSE TO THE CALL.
REALITY OF COURSE WE NEED TO BE
O NEEDS TO
HAPPEN CENTRALLY WITH THE
GOVERNMENT AND THE W.H.O. NEEDS
TO STEP UP TO THE PLATE.
>> Brown:  THERE ARE NEW
NUMBERS ABOUT DEATH TOLL TOPPING
1200.
ALSO CONCERNS THAT THE ACTUAL
NUMBERS ARE VASTLY UNDERREPORTED
IS THAT A CONCERN TO YOU?
>> WE HAD CONCERN ABOUT THE
FIGURES BECAUSE THE REALITY WE
ARE NOT ABLE TO DO THE DATA
COLLECTION WHEREVER IN THE
COUNTRY IF WE SAY, FOR EXAMPLE,
LIBERIA.
MIGHT BE UNDERESTIMATE.
WE HEAR A LOOT ABOUT SOME DEATH
IN THE COMMUNITIES, BUT THIS HAS
NOT BEEN CHECKED WE DON'T HAVE
THE CAPACITY TODAY TO GO AND
CHECK TO FIND OUT IF THEY WERE
DEATH BECAUSE OF EBOLA.
>> Brown:  DR. JOANN LIU FROM
DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS THANK
YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: WE TURN NOW TO
INDONESIA, WHERE ONE PROVINCE,
IN THE WAKE OF THE DEVASTATING
TSUNAMI OF 2004, HAS EMBRACED
ISLAMIC SHARIA LAW.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT KIRA KAY
RECENTLY TRAVELED TO ACEH
PROVINCE, WHERE SHE WAS GIVEN
SPECIAL ACCESS TO THE RELIGIOUS
POLICE FORCE, TO BRING US THIS
INSIDE LOOK AT HOW SHARIA IS
IMPACTING THE EVERYDAY LIFE OF
RESIDENTS.
>> Reporter: IT'S FRIDAY NOON
TIME FOR THE MOST IMPORTANT
PRAYERS OF THE WEEK AT MOSQUES
AROUND THE INDONESIAN CITY OF
BANDA ACEH.
BESIDES THE CALL TO PRAYER, YOU
ER FROMR ANOTHER SOUND ON THE
THE SHARIA POLICE PATROL.
>> ALL MEN IN THE COFFEE SHOP
PLEASE HEAD TO THE MOSQUE AND
CARRY OUT YOUR FRIDAY PRAYERS!
>> Reporter: SHOPS AND
RESTAURANTS ARE SUPPOSED TO BE
CLOSED DURING PRAYERS, BUT THESE
SHARIA OFFICERS ARE TIPPED OFF
BY THE MOTORBIKES PARKED OUT
FRONT THE SEEMINGLY SHUTTERED
ENTRANCES, AND THEY BREAK UP THE
CLANDESTINE LUNCH PLANS OF THIS
ROOMFUL OF MEN.
ALONGSIDE A SECULAR LEGAL
SYSTEM, ACEH ENFORCES AN
OFFICIAL POLICY OF SHARIA.
WHILE MOST OFFENCES DRAW ONLY A
SCOLDING FROM POLICE, THERE IS A
COURT SYSTEM TO TRY MORE SERIOUS
CASES; WITH PUBLIC CANING THE
ULTIMATE PUNISHMENT.
RITASARI PUJIASTUTI IS THE CHIEF
OF BANDA ACEH'S SHARIA POLICE.
>> ( translated ): THE MOST
COMMON INFRACTIONS WE FIND ARE
UN-ISLAMIC BEHAVIOR, LIKE NOT
WEARING PROPER CLOTHING.
NEXT IS BEING ALONE WITH SOMEONE
WHO IS NOT YOUR SPOUSE--
PARTICULARLY IN QUIET PLACES.
AND THEN GAMBLING.
WE ALSO FIND A LOT OF ALCOHOLIC
DRINKS.
WE ALSO GET REPORTS FROM
CITIZENS, TELLING US WHENEVER A
SHARIA VIOLATION HAPPENS IN A
GIVEN NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> Reporter: SITTING AT THE
NORTHERNMOST TIP OF INDONESIA,
ACEH IS NICKNAMED THE "VERANDAH
OF MECCA," ISLAM FIRST CAME TO
THE COUNTRY THROUGH HERE.
ACEH FOUGHT A THREE-DECADE WAR
FOR INDEPENDENCE FROM THE REST
OF INDONESIA.
IT DIDN'T WIN, BUT WAS GIVEN
SPECIAL AUTONOMY THAT INCLUDED
SHARIA.
SO FAR ACEH IS THE ONLY PROVINCE
IN INDONESIA TO BE GIVEN THIS
SPECIAL RIGHT.
BANDA ACEH MAYOR ILLIZA
SA'ADUDDIN HAS MADE SHARIA A
PRIORITY.
>> ( translated ): WE ARE VERY
PROUD THAT ACEH GOT TO DO THIS
FIRST, THAT THIS BLESSING WAS
BESTOWED ON US.
EVEN THOUGH THERE ARE SHORT
COMINGS, WE ARE GLAD TO BE ABLE
TO LIVE UNDER SHARIA.
>> Reporter: THE SYSTEM SAT
FAIRLY DORMANT UNTIL AFTER 2004,
WHEN A MASSIVE EARTHQUAKE AND
ENSUING TSUNAMI ROCKED ACEH,
KILLING 130,000 PEOPLE.
MANY CITIZENS FELT THE DISASTER
WAS GOD'S PUNISHMENT FOR THEIR
LACK OF DEVOUTNESS, EVIDENCED BY
THE MOSQUES THAT REMAINED
STANDING AMIDST FIELDS OF
RUBBLE.
ACEHNESE RENEWED THEIR
DEDICATION TO THEIR FAITH.
THE TSUNAMI RECOVERY PROCESS
ALSO OPENED UP LONG-CLOSED ACEH
TO THE WORLD, AND ITS VICES,
SAYS POLICE CHIEF RITASARI.
>> ( translated ): WE NEED TO
CONSTANTLY MONITOR PEOPLE'S
BEHAVIORS BY PATROL OR RAID
BECAUSE THERE ARE A LOT OF
OUTSIDE INFLUENCES COMING FROM
ALL SIDES.
WE ARE SAFEGUARDING PEOPLE,
TIYOUNGER
GENERATION WHO ARE DRAWN TOWARDS
THIS WAVE OF GLOBALIZATION.
>> Reporter: MAYOR SA'ADUDDIN
SAYS SHARIA IS PART OF ACEH'S
REBUILDING PROCESS.
>> ( translated ): WE ARE REALLY
GRATEFUL TO EVERYONE WHO HAS
HELPED US WITH THE RECOVERY AND
REHABILITATION.
WITHOUT THEIR HELP WE WOULD NOT
BE WHERE WE ARE TODAY.
OUR CHALLENGE IS TO ENSURE THAT
ISLAMIC VALUES REMAIN IN
PEOPLE'S HEARTS, SO THAT WE CAN
BUILD ON THIS DEVELOPMENT IN A
POSITIVE WAY, THROUGH A
GENERATION THAT CONTRIBUTES TO
SOCIETY.
>> Reporter: AMONG YOUNG
CITIZENS OF ACEH, THERE'S SOME
SURPRISING AGREEMENT WITH THE
CONCERNS OF THE MAYOR AND POLICE
CHIEF.
SANUSI WAS STOPPED BY THE SHARIA
POLICE FOR DRIVING WITH FEMALE
FRIENDS AFTER DARK:
>> ( translated ): I WAS NERVOUS
WHEN IT HAPPENED, BUT I FEEL THE
RULES ARE GOOD FOR SOCIETY,
ESPECIALLY TO GUIDE THE LIVES
AND BEHAVIORS OF YOUNG PEOPLE.
YES, SOMETIMES WE FEEL
EMBARRASSED OR ANNOYED, BUT WHEN
THE SHARIA POLICE GIVE US WORDS
OF ADVICE, WE UNDERSTAND, THEY
ARE FOR THE GOOD OF ALL.
>> ( translated ): PERSONALLY I
FEEL COMFORTABLE.
I CAN ALSO EXPRESS MYSELF WITH
THE LATEST ISLAMIC FASHION.
>> Reporter: AT THE ISLAMIC
UNIVERSITY, YOUNG STUDENTS
DEBATE THE LAWS AMONGST
THEMSELVES.
>> ( translated ): PEOPLE VIEW
THE SHARIA AS SOMETHING EXTREME.
BUT I THINK SHARIA IS THERE TO
ESTABLISH BOUNDARIES, NOT
IMPRISON US.
>> ( translated ): I DON'T AGREE
THAT EVERYTHING SHOULD BE
REGULATED.
I THINK IT IS US WHO SHOULD
REGULATE OURSELVES NOT THE
GOVERNMENT WHO ESTABLISHES WHAT
WE CAN OR CAN'T DO.
>> Reporter: THE RESTRICTIONS ON
YOUNG PEOPLE ARE SIGNIFICANT
BECAUSE SHARIA PROHIBITS THE
CLOSE INTERACTIONS OF UNMARRIED
PEOPLE.
BANDA ACEH'S ONLY CINEMA WAS
SHUT DOWN, AND THE MUSIC SCENE
HAS BEEN CENSORED, WITH SOME OF
THE CITY'S PUNK MUSICIANS
THEMSELVES CONVICTED OF SHARIA
VIOLATIONS.
YOUNG PEOPLE CAN STILL GO TO THE
BEACH, BUT IT CLOSES AT DARK TO
AVOID IMPROPER BEHAVIOR, CAUSING
TRAFFIC JAMS AT THE GATE.
BILLBOARDS SPONSORED BY THE CITY
REMIND CITIZENS THAT UNMARRIED
COUPLES CANNOT BE ALONE
TOGETHER.
THIS YOUNG COUPLE KNOWS THEY ARE
BREAKING THE LAW, BUT THEY HAVE
NOWHERE ELSE TO GO AND ARE
WILLING TO TAKE THE RISK.
OTHER YOUTH HAVE TAKEN A CAT-
AND-MOUSE APPROACH, LIKE THESE
YOUNG WOMEN WHO ARE WEARING LAW-
BREAKING, THOUGH STYLISH, PENCIL
PANTS.
>> ( translated ): WE JUST HAVE
TO BE CAREFUL.
IF WE SEE THE SHARIA POLICE, WE
RUN!
>> ( translated ): OF COURSE WE
WILL NOT JUST STAND THERE AND
GET ARRESTED.
I COULD NEVER BEAR THE SHAME.
>> Reporter: BUT BEYOND THESE
LIFESTYLE INFRINGEMENTS LURK
MORE SERIOUS HUMAN RIGHTS
CONCERNS, AS ACEH'S
INTERPRETATION OF SHARIA
BROADENS.
>> BY GIVING THE SHARIA TO ACEH,
THE INDONESIANS BASICALLY OPENED
PANDORA'S BOX.
>> Reporter: ANDREAS HARSONO IS
WITH HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH.
>> THERE ARE TWO GROUPS THAT ARE
ACTUALLY THREATENED BY THIS
FORMALIZATION OF THE SHARIA.
THE FIRST GROUP IS RELIGIOUS
MINORITIES.
MORE THAN 20 CHURCHES WERE
CLOSED DOWN IN ACEH OVER THE
LAST TWO YEARS.
THEY ALSO BANNED 14 ISLAMIC
RELIGIOUS SECTS, LIKE THE
AHMADIYAH, THE SHIA.
WE DID NOT EXPECT THAT.
THE SECOND VICTIM IS WOMEN.
THERE ARE VARIOUS, STRANGE
REGULATIONS BEING PRODUCED.
FOR INSTANCE, BANNING WOMEN FROM
STRADDLING MOTORCYCLES.
IN SOME AREAS, WOMEN CANNOT WEAR
PANTS TO GO TO WORK OR TO GO TO
SCHOOL, WHICH MEANS THAT IT WILL
RESTRICT THEIR MOBILITIES.
ULTIMATELY IT WILL AFFECT THEIR
ECONOMIC RIGHTS, ULTIMATELY IT
WILL AFFECT THEIR EDUCATION.
>> Reporter: WE WERE GIVEN
SP
SHARIA POLICE ON THEIR DAILY
ROUNDS.
>> ( translated ): WE OFTEN COME
TO PARKS LIKE THIS, BECAUSE WE
CAN SEE PEOPLE DATING OR NOT
WEARING MUSLIM DRESS.
WE TRY TO GIVE THEM GUIDANCE ON
THE SCENE.
BUT IF THE VIOLATION IS MORE
SERIOUS, WE WILL BRING IT TO THE
OFFICE.
>> Reporter: WE NOTICED WOMEN
BEING TARGETED A LOT MORE THAN
MEN.
THESE STORE CLERKS WERE CHASED
BECAUSE THEIR UNIFORMS WERE
IMMODEST.
SO WAS THIS MOM, FOR NOT WEARING
A HEADSCARF.
AND THIS TROUBLING SCENE, THE
BERATING OF A YOUNG WOMAN IN THE
PARKING LOT, AFTER BEING CAUGHT
HAVING AN AFFECTIONATE OUTING
WITH HER BOYFRIEND.
>> ( translated ): YOU WILL
BRING SHAME TO YOUR VILLAGE, DO
YOU UNDERSTAND?
>> ( translated ): WHEN A MAN
VIOLATES SHARIA, PEOPLE SEE IT
AS A MISDEMEANOR.
BUT WHEN IT'S A WOMAN SHE IS
AUTOMATICALLY SEEN AS A SINNER
WHO HAS NO PLACE IN SOCIETY.
>> Reporter: AZRIANA MANALU IS A
LAWYER ADVOCATING FOR WOMEN
FACING SERIOUS SHARIA
VIOLATIONS.
SHE SAYS ACCUSATIONS OF ADULTERY
ARE PARTICULARLY TRAUMATIZING
FOR WOMEN, BUT EVEN SIMPLER
CHARGES CAN RUIN LIVES.
IN 2010, TWO YOUNG WOMEN WERE
CANED BECAUSE THEY WERE CAUGHT
SELLING RICE DURING RAMADAN.
AFTER THEIR PUBLIC PUNISHMENT,
MANALU SAYS, THEY FLED THEIR
HOMES FOR GOOD.
>> ( translated ): THE WORST
KIND OF PUNISHMENT FOR WOMEN IS
THE SOCIAL STIGMA, EVEN EX-
COMMUNICATION, THEY RECEIVE FROM
THEIR COMMUNITIES.
THE CANING HURTS THEM FOR ONLY
ONE OR TWO DAYS BUT THE
CONDEMNATION IS SOMETHING THEY
WILL FACE FOR THE REST OF THEIR
LIVES.
>> Reporter: MANALU ALSO FEARS
THAT COMMUNAL TENSIONS ARE
RISING AS NEIGHBORS TURN EACH
OTHER IN.
>> ( translated ): I DON'T THINK
SHARIA IS WHAT PEOPLE NEED RIGHT
NOW.
WHAT WE NEED IS FOR VICTIMS OF
PAST CONFLICT TO LIVE
PEACEFULLY.
WE ALSO NEED TO PUT AN END TO
CORRUPTION.
THESE THINGS SHOULD BE TAKEN
SERIOUSLY BY THE GOVERNMENT; NOT
THIS PRIORITY ON SHARIA
ENFORCEMENT.
>> Reporter: MAYOR SA'ADUDDIN
ADMITS IMPROVEMENTS ARE NEEDED
BUT REMAINS FIRMLY COMMITTED TO
SHARIA.
>> ( translated ): WE DON'T WANT
THE OFFICERS TO BE
AUTHORITARIAN, THEY MUST TRULY
UNDERSTAND THEIR FUNCTION IS NOT
TO JUST PUNISH PEOPLE, BUT TO
ALSO EXPLAIN WHY THEY DO THIS,
AND TELL PEOPLE NOT TO TAKE THE
LAW INTO THEIR OWN HANDS.
THERE MUST ALSO BE CLEAR LEGAL
PROCEDURES, WITH WITNESSES AND
EVIDENCE.
>> Reporter: THERE ARE NOW NEW
BYLAWS EXTENDING ACEH'S SHARIA
RULES TO NON-MUSLIMS.
FOR THE FIRST TIME THIS PAST
RAMADAN, CHRISTIAN CHINESE FOOD
SHOPS WERE FORCED TO CLOSE
DURING THE FASTING PERIOD, A
TROUBLING DEVELOPMENT FOR A
COUNTRY LONG KNOWN FOR IT'S
MODERATE FORM OF ISLAM.
MEANWHILE, OTHER PARTS OF
INDONESIA ARE BEGINNING TO SEE
ACEH AS A MODEL, SENDING LOCAL
OFFICIALS TO OBSERVE THE
IMPLEMENTATION.
>> Woodruff: THIS REPORT IS PART
OF THE "FAULT LINES OF FAITH"
SERIES PRODUCED IN PARTNERSHIP
WITH THE BUREAU FOR
INTERNATIONAL REPORTING.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT:
NEWLY DISCOVERED BY SCIENTISTS
AND NEWLY DOCUMENTED BY "THE
CROWD."
JEFF IS BACK TO EXPLAIN.
>> Brown: IT WAS AN EXCEEDINGLY
RARE DISCOVERY: A NEW SPECIES OF
MAMMAL CALLED THE OLINGUITO, A
SMALL, FURRY, TREE-WELLING
MEMBER OF THE RACCOON FAMILY,
LIVING IN THE FORESTS OF
COLUMBIA AND ECUADOR.
IN THE YEAR SINCE THE
ANNOUNCEMENT, THE OLINGUITO HAS
GONE FROM LITERAL UNKNOWN TO
BEING SURPRISINGLY WELL-
DOCUMENTED.
THROUGH PHOTOS AND VIDEOS SHOT
BY AMATEUR NATURALISTS,
BIRDWATCHERS, AND OTHERS, A KIND
OF CROWD-SOURCED SCIENCE.
KRISTOFER HELGEN, A CURATOR OF
MAMMALS AT THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION'S "MUSEUM OF NATURAL
HISTORY," WAS PART OF THE
ORIGINAL DISCOVERY TEAM,
AND JOINS US ONCE AGAIN FOR AN
UPDATE.
WELCOME BACK.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Brown:  A YEAR LATER.
FIRST A QUICK REMINDER OF THIS
CREATURE WHAT IT IS.
>> A YEAR AGO WE ANNOUNCED THIS
NEW SPECIES OF MAMMALS THE
OLINGUITO IS THE SMALLEST NUMBER
OF THE RACCOON FAMILY.
IS FOUND ONLY IN THE HIGH
ELEVATION CLOUD FOREST HABITATS
OF COLUMBIA AND ECUADOR.
I WANT TO REMIND YOU LAST YEAR I
WAS HERE TO TELL YOU ABOUT THE
WAY THAT WE FIRST REALIZED THIS
ANIMAL EXISTED.
OF I FOUND SKIN AND SKULLS OF
THE OLINGUITO IN MUSEUMS AROUND
THE WORLD.
>> Brown:  THAT WAS THE
INTERESTING PART.
IT WASN'T OUT IN THE FIELD.
MUSEUM DRAWERS.
>> THEY WERE ALL ZOOLOGISTS HAD
MISSED.
IT WAS AN ANIMAL SO DISTINCTIVE
ONCE WE LEARNED HOW TO TELL IT
APART FROM ALL OF THE RELATIVES
IN THE RACCOON FAMILY HARD TOE
MISS IT AGAIN.
USE THE SKINS AND SKULLS TO
FIGURE OUT WHERE EXACTLY MOST
LIKE THREE FIND THIS ANIMAL IN
THE SKINS AND SKULLS SPECIMENS
HAD COME FROM JUST THESE FEW
HIGH ELEVATION AREAS.
WE USED THAT WORKING WITH A
COLLEAGUE IN ECUADOR, MIGUEL
PINTO WHO KNOWS THE COUNTRY.
CAN YOU TAKE US TO THE PLACE
BASED ON THIS INFORMATION THAT
YOU THINK WE HAVE THE BEST
CHANCE TO FIND IT AND WE DID.
FOUND THIS ANIMAL ALIVE
IN THE WILD.
>> Brown:  THAT WAS A YEAR
AGO.
YOU DIDN'T KNOW A WHOLE LOT.
AND I GRATHER THAT SINCE THEN
YOU STARTED GETTING ALL KINDS OF
INFORMATION FROM UNEXPECTED
SOURCES?
>> THAT'S EXACTLY RIGHT.
IT'S BEEN ABSOLUTELY
SERENDIPITOUS, LAST YEAR ON DAY
ONE FOR THE OLINGUITO IT WAS THE
DAY THAT WE GAVE IT ITS
SCIENTIFIC NAME.
WE SHOWED THE WORLD AN
ANNOUNCEMENT WHAT THIS ANIMAL IS
HOW TO TELL IT APART.
LIKE YOU SAY WE DIDN'T KNOW MUCH
ABOUT IT YET.
JUST KNEW A LITTLE BIT OF
INFORMATION, A FEW PLACES WHERE
IT OCCURRED.
KNEW ONLY CAME OUT AT NIGHT,
THAT I JUST LIVED UP IN THE
TREES.
MOST OF WHAT WE WERE HOPING TO
LEARN ABOUT THE OLINGUITO WAS
STILL IN FRONT OF US.
>> Brown:  WHAT HAPPENED?
PEOPLE STARTED SEND IN PHOTOS.
>> JUST FROM THAT FIRST MOMENT
STARTED GETTING INFORMATION
FLOWING BACK.
NOW SOME PEOPLE SAW THE PICTURES
OF THE OLINGUITO THEY SAID, WAIT
A SECOND, I'VE BEEN TO THESE
AREAS OF SOUTH AMERICA, I THINK
I'VE SEEN ANIMAL LOT LIKE THAT
MAYBE THEY WENT BACK THROUGH
THEIR VACATION PHOTOGRAPHS.
MAYBE THEY LOOKED CLOSER AT THE
PROTECTED AREAS WHERE THEY WERE
WORKING.
CASES LIKE THAT AND OFTEN
INVOLVING BIRD WATCHERS.
THESE ARE PEOPLE WHO ARE POISED
THEIR EYES AND EARS AT THE
READY, CAMERAS AND BINOCULARS SO
THAT WHEN THEY'RE IN THESE
PLACES WHERE THE OLINGUITO COULD
OCCUR AND THAT ANIMAL SHOWED
ITSELF THEY THERE WERE TAKING
PICTURES AND FILM AND SENDING IT
TO US.
>> Brown:  SOME OF THE PHOTOS
WE'RE SHOWING, ONE IN
PARTICULAR, A BABY OLINGUITO.
>> THIS IS THE FIRST INFORMATION
IN THIS YEAR SINCE WE MADE
ANNOUNCEMENT FIRST INFORMATION
ABOUT BABY OLINGUITOS EVER.
NOW LAST YEAR SOME PEOPLE WERE
ASKING ME, COULD THERE BE A
CUTER ANIMAL, A NEW SPECIES THAN
THE OLINGUITO.
THIS YEAR WE LEARNED THE ANSWER,
THE BABY OLINGUITO.
JUST ABSOLUTELY ENDEARING IMAGES
OF A BEAUTIFUL ANIMAL.
PICTURES OF THE BABY
OLINGUITO COME FROM A PARTICULAR
PROTECTED AREA IN COLUMBIA, AND
IT'S IN THIS PLACE WHERE JUST
WITHIN THE FIRST MONTH OR SO OF
OUR ANNOUNCEMENT PEOPLE WORKING
ON STUDYING AND PROTECTING THIS
FOREST, TOOK A CLOSER LOOK AND
FOUND OLINGUITOS IN THE WILD,
THEY DOCUMENTED THE FIRST
NESTING BEHAVIOR, THE FIRST
BABIES, GREAT IMAGES, I
UNDERSTAND THAT SOME OF THE
RESEARCHERS AT THAT PROTECTED
FOREST AREA ARE ACTUALLY
TRACKING AND STUDYING THE ANIMAL
NOW AS WE SPEAK.
BROWN WERE YOU SURPRISED BY WHAT
HAPPENED.
YOU DIDN'T SEND OUT ALL POINTS
BULLETIN.
THIS SPONTANEOUS RESPONSE AND
CROWDSOURCE SCIENCE, WHAT DID
YOU LEARN ABOUT HOW YOUAN
SCIENCE NOWADAYS?
>> IT WAS EXTREMELY EXCITING.
WE DIDN'T HA GO BEAT THE BUSHES
LIKE YOU SAID, IT CAME TO US.
TRULY THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE HAVE
REACHED OUT TO US THIS PAST YEAR
WITH SOME INTEREST OR ANOTHER
ABOUT THE OLINGUITO.
OF THE MAYBE SEVERAL
DOZEN HAVE GIVEN US REALLY HIGH
QUALITY INFORMATION.
THEY HAVE SEEN --
>> Brown:  SOMETIMES IT'S NOT
AN OLINGUITO.
>> EVEN HAD PEOPLE THAT THINK
THEY MAY HAVE FOUND THE
OLINGUITO IN THEIR BACK YARD
HERE IN THE UNITED STATES.
>> Brown:  GENERALLY TELL
THEM.
>> ALL KINDS OF INFORMATION.
BUT SOME HAS BEEN FANTASTIC
INFORMATION.
MOST SPECIES WE KNOW VERY LITTLE
ABOUT THEM.
THIS YEAR TAKING STOCK OF THE
INFORMATION THAT'S COME IN I
THINK THAT IT'S A FANTASTIC
MOMENT TO REFLECT ON HOW
OBSERVANT NATURALISTS,
PHOTOGRAPHS, PEOPLE JUST ARE
READY THE LEARN SOMETHING ABOUT
NATURE, CURIOUS PEOPLE CAN MAKE
CONTRIBUTIONS THAT ARE REALLY
VALUABLE TO NATURAL HISTORY.
>> Brown:  CONTINUING
INTERESTING STORY.
KRIS HELGEN OF THE SMITHSONIAN.
THANK YOU.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME, JEFF.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
OFFICIALS IN FERGUSON, MISSOURI
APPEALED AGAIN FOR CALM.
BUT ANOTHER POLICE KILLING, OF
ANOTHER BLACK SUSPECT, JUST A
DOZEN MILES AWAY, TRIGGERED NEW
ANGER.
THE CEASE-FIRE BETWEEN ISRAEL
AND HAMAS COLLAPSED WHEN
MILITANTS FIRED NEW VOLLEYS OF
ROCKETS, AND ISRAEL ANSWERED
WITH AIR-STRIKES.
AND THE "ISLAMIC STATE" GROUP
CLAIMED IT BEHEADED AMERICAN
JOURNALIST JAMES FOLEY.
HE'D BEEN MISSING IN SYRIA FOR
NEARLY TWO YEARS.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY, MARGARET WARNER
REPORTS FROM IRAQ ON THE
HUMANITARIAN CRISIS FACED BY
ETHNIC MINORITIES DRIVEN FROM
THEIR HOMES BY ISLAMIC
MILITANTS.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF, WE'LL SEE YOU
ON-LINE AND AGAIN HERE TOMORROW
EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.